So, with the jumping,
we had this idea of acceleration, right?
Kind of immediately going,
falling we had acceleration,
jumping we had a mixture of, jumping
up until we hit that stopping point and
then turning around and going back down.
And now we have the idea of like, cool, we
hit, we start going at 10, it really ever
only goes 8 if you look, because we're
already multiplying by that 0.8.
So again, you might adjust
the numbers accordingly, but
we've got this kind of idea
of resistance and friction.
Which is we push the ball,
the friction slows it down at
a constant rate at this point.
But we get that kind of better feel
that we might be used to seeing in a lot
of other games, and that feels a lot more
natural than just moving by one pixel,
moving by ten pixels over and
over and over again.
Yeah, those little things and
we'll add a lot to the value of it and
they all have to do is just thinking about
what is the mechanic that you wanna do,
and what is the feel that
you are trying to get.
Okay, we're gonna do something here where
I'm gonna have to say this real quick,
we'll call it Rolly Ball.
That seems like a great name for
this, Rolly Ball.
All right, we're gonna do something where
I'm gonna show you what we're gonna kind
go towards, And
then we'll maybe look at how to do it.
So don't bother with the code, in fact,
we're not even gonna look at the code.
Well, the mechanic we kind of want to do,
so
here's that drifting that we just did,
right?
That we had before.
Feels natural., feels good, right?
This feels right.
And then we can jump,
got that kind of jumping motion.
But what we didn't have previously is one,
the ability to hit our head on things.
And then two, The idea of a floor
that could be somewhere else, right?
And so we're gonna need one new trick,
and then we're gonna kind of need to pull
together all the previous tricks if we're
gonna kind of get this mechanic working.
I think this one still,
no, this one can't even.
It's got a little thing with the jump
where we don't stop the jump if it's
hit its head, so it can do that motion,
which we can adjust.
I kind of like it.
But, we want to start to pull
together all these things.
We just need one or two more tricks that
I think are really useful when making
a platform again that kind of ties a lot
of these epic pieces back into each other.
I'm not going to keep playing this for
another ten minutes,
that's not gonna be what I do.
All right, so with that, let's go
ahead and see how we might do that.
Let's make a new game.
I don't wanna worry about,
if you haven't noticed about me,
I get sad when I have a sprite that
looks like it should be running or
jumping and it's not.
So for my own sanity I'm gonna go make
myself something that doesn't look
like it has to be moving in any given way.
That's why there was a square there
before because otherwise I will
spend the next two hours designing
a sprite that is not of any use to you.
So, I'm gonna paint a new one.
As you can see from
the thing I did before,
I'm going to choose to use a square.
You want to make something else,
you make something else.
I'm going to make a square
because I am crazy.
There is a square.
Bigger, smaller, we like it?
Nah, this feels right, feels good.
Bigger?
Bigger, okay, we got, go big or go home.
>> Better.
>> Better, okay.
I'm just gonna make sure it's
in that middle point though.
Yeah, otherwise, it's weird where your
sprite is like all the directions are off,
slightly smaller.
That feels good.
All right,
we're gonna call this Epic hero.
And you know what?
Even better, now it is an Epic Hero.
>> He looks like he's got [INAUDIBLE]
>> He is, he had too much pizza at lunch.
>> That reminds you someone?
[LAUGH]
>> What are you talking about?
This is what happens when we
lay open the sprite editor.
Okay, we've got our hero.
He looks heroic, ready to rock and roll.
>> His name is Bob.
>> Name is Bob, okay, let's do that.
Bob, how about this?
Bob, the epic hero and also,
>> The builder.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Today I learned that there's not
really limits on the length of
a sprite name that I'm aware of.
Maybe there is,
I didn't reach it in that moment.
And then the backdrop let's go ahead,
someone give me a color.
>> Red.
>> And green.
>> All the colors.
Clearly sparkles, neon beige.
>> Neon beige.
>> Neon.
[LAUGH]
>> Do that.
>> Those are two polar opposites.
>> Let's get a cool little platform.
Do something like that maybe,
just something for it to jump around on.
That's a little off.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> And some neon beige.
Well, so there's two things.
If I'm doing a color detection,
I got to keep it all one color.
If I change this at one point
to like sprite detection,
if instead of a backdrop,
I make the sprite like if touching this,
then I can literally have all
sorts of different colors, right?
So those are both options.
And it's kind of like why a lot of times
moving this to a sprite might be better
for us, depending on what we wanna do.
Cool, so we've got this in place.
And there's gonna be some trickiness here.
Remember before when we did the dropping
kind of fell into the ground, right?
What if I told you there was
a way to solve for that?
Right, and
there's a bunch of ways to solve for this.
So let's start with a basic
following mechanism here.
So we'll go ahead and
we'll just start with the flag for now.
We'll make a, just delete this one.
We'll make one called velocity y,
speed y velocity y.
Again, I'm just picking names that work
for me, you can call it whatever you want.
And we'll set that to zero in
the beginning and we'll say,
Forever, And
we'll just do the simplest following ever.
For a second, we'll say,
change velocity y by -1.
No, don't pick that set one again, you've
already made a mistake with that before.
So, change velocity by negative one,
they will change y by that velocity.
This should look somewhat familiar, right?
Because we're snapping everything
together that we've learned so far.
And we'll go ahead and
we'll check touching color,
Red.
And if that is true,
we will set the velocity to zero.
All right, let's try this out.
That's a really long name.
Good bye now, okay, well that
doesn't really give us what we want.
To do is set the velocity negative zero,
change y by velocity.
Cuz we're doing it every
go around in here.
So let's actually move this beneath,
that should do the trick.
If not, I'll have to debug it.
All right, so
there is our famous problem that we've had
multiple times over and
over and over again, right?
And it gets worse the higher we drop from,
right?
Because it already moved,
I don't know what, it was like 23,
and so it could be anywhere from 22 over,
right?
By the time it drops.
It all depends on the mathematics.
And so that's not great.
It'd be great if it always
dropped 22 because then you just
make it look a little 3D and
move on with your life.
The problem here is that
it is inconsistently,
because if I drop it from here, right?
So a little bit, dropping here
it looks like almost nothing.
Jumping from up here and
into the ground we go.
So if we think about this,
this is where it just stopping,
remember was in the beginning
where like somebody's gonna stop.
You breathe for a moment,
you think about this,
which is how would you get
him back up to the floor?
Yeah.
>> If it would be like,
if the purple is touching red,
then it sets the velocity to
positive one and it's not.
>> Yeah, right?
If our little character
is touching the red,
what we'll do is we'll say,
Let's do repeat until, right?
Repeat until, We are not touching the red.
[LAUGH] Same thing.
Not touching the red,
I'll just move it up one.
Now, this will get us
most of the way there.
You will notice a new problem
that we will have to solve for.
>> That's pretty obvious.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH]
>> So it's kinda you can see the motion,
I don't know how he's jumping like that.
I think because I pick them up and I'm
not resetting this to anything, so like.
Right, so like that's not great,
because we can kinda see it happening.
So not our best yet, but there was also,
even if it wasn't vibrating,
you would see that part of the problem
is that we see it happening, right?
What we really wanna do is have a bunch of
stuff that can happen in our game without
showing me everything, do a bunch of
stuff and show me the end result, right?
That doesn't really happen here,
we can't do that here now.
Hypothetically, this is
like a lot of weird code.
I am gonna break it out
into its own like little
helper-
>> Thing is if I put him inside a block
then he just floats up to the top.
>> Yeah, right?
That's exactly what we saw before, right?
Put him here and up he goes,
because that's our logic.
That is our code is doing what we told
it to do not what we wanted it to do.
>> You hang him off that block floating
then you just float up to the top.
>> Yeah, he will float,
like [SOUND] up he goes.
And I think he'll actually keep going.
>> Until he's up to it.
>> And then he would.
Okay, that's not what we want.
What we're gonna do,
let's take this out for a second,
because I could see myself reusing this.
Let's go make a block
called fixed landing.
What's this over here?
Run without screen refresh, which means we
can go and move him up without seeing it.
Let's do that and
we'll put all this code here.
We'll actually have it
set to zero as well.
So if touching a color, I can call fix
landing, I could go like adjust for
landing.
I don't adjust for landing,
that sounds like a fight thing.
Let's see if I got it right.
Nope, did I hit the button?
Run a screen refresh.
There we go.
Boom.
There it goes.
Yeah, the game is not meant for
me clicking and
dragging my dude midway through.
So now as he drops,
is technically dropping too far and
moving back up, right?
You're just blissfully unaware
that any of that happened, right?
Because if I turn this off,
you can see it again.
So we'll stop it.
All right, he does that motion, but
because we're gonna do all this
logic of moving them back up until
he's not touching the rat again,
we don't see any of that.
We're not doing a render,
until we're done with the logic.
And so now, Or
if I drop him on the ground,
We just put him in the right spot and
we don't worry about it, yeah.
>> Does that mean that you
can see him moving if he's in
the ground when you're doing it, move?
>> If he's in the ground,
I'll just move him above the ground again.
>> Well, yeah, but
if we add moving left or right,
would that mean that we wouldn't see
him moving until he's above the ground?
>> Let's add left and right.